Cycle 167, 15-03
Somewhere in the Groom system.

 You had just reached you cabin when your second in command called you back for an urgent conference with Boss MacKenzie. It had to be important otherwise he would not have risked any lengthy conversation through the hacked communication satellites. The other captains must have thought the same as it only took a few minutes for everyone to join the virtual room. Despite being obviously upset, MacKenzie was still oozing that charisma so many merchant captains mistook for sympathy. He grinned:

" Okay everyone, let us keep this short. The rumors were true. I just spoke to my contact in the government and they confirmed that Lazia and his cohorts called the O.R.A. to help them solve their little dissent. Of course that means we will have to move elsewhere. Sure any Alliance operation always attracts a ton of traders but let's be real: We all know how much they hate pirates and I don't want to spend the rest of my life with a target on my back. I already contacted my friends in the Joy system, they'll let us in for just a small cut of our profits so we have a temporary solution. What the rumors got wrong however is when the first Alliance ships are expected to arrive. We only have three days, four at most. That means if we don't want to leave this system poor, we only have time for one last large operation. 

 That is why we will attack the NCS 32.456 convoy just as it crosses the armistice line. With a bit of luck we should be in and out before those assholes on the planet finished arguing which of their fleets should intervene. The only issue is that the convoy is scheduled to depart in 78 hours, so there is a chance for the Alliance's forward elements to already be in the system. We cannot allow that. Lin you're it: I won't lie, these are real warships from a real army, and I think you're the one most suited to deal with them. Plus your ships could pass for elements of the Camillia defense fleet, so keep your transponders on to confuse them. Try to take them out as they jump in if you can, and otherwise delay them long enough to complete our operation. This isn't the Navy anymore, don't loose your ships needlessly: We will need them once we move to the Joy system."